# October 2nd 2017

Triage week, irc meeting in #rust-dev-tools

## IRC log
```
[2017-10-02 21:00:27] <mw> alright, it's meeting time!
[2017-10-02 21:01:58] <mw> I'll be driving the meeting today as nrc is on parental leave
[2017-10-02 21:02:13] <mw> https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/rust-dev-tools
[2017-10-02 21:02:56] <mw> does oli-obk have a different nick on IRC?
[2017-10-02 21:03:02] <Manishearth> mw: no
[2017-10-02 21:03:23] <mw> Manishearth: thanks. I guess he's not around then
[2017-10-02 21:03:59] <mw> there's the "Tools in Rust's CI" bullet point on the etherpad
[2017-10-02 21:04:36] <mw> Manishearth: do you know more about this?
[2017-10-02 21:06:58] <mw> do we have any attendees to this meeting?
[2017-10-02 21:07:31] <tromey> I'm here but I doubt I will have much to say, it being my first one
[2017-10-02 21:07:47] <mw> hi tromey 
[2017-10-02 21:08:06] <misdreavus> i'll be spotty, dayjob stuff just came up
[2017-10-02 21:08:07] <mw> yes, just listen in if you like
[2017-10-02 21:08:48] <mw> I'll go through our list of issues, we'll see if anyone has comments
[2017-10-02 21:09:05] <mw> nominated issues: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AT-dev-tools+label%3AI-nominated
[2017-10-02 21:09:22] <mw> first one, gh36342
[2017-10-02 21:09:34] <mw> https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/36342
[2017-10-02 21:09:43] <Manishearth> mw: yes
[2017-10-02 21:09:47] <mw> "Re-exporting C symbols for cdylib"
[2017-10-02 21:10:17] <mw> at the moment, we don't seem to offer a way to re-export symbols from c libraries
[2017-10-02 21:10:32] <mw> it seems clear to me that we should do that
[2017-10-02 21:10:59] <mw> however, I think we would need an RFC to determine how that should look like
[2017-10-02 21:11:33] <mw> since we are at the beginning of the impl period, this is kind of a problem :)
[2017-10-02 21:11:55] <mw> I propose that I discuss with aturon how to proceed here
[2017-10-02 21:12:23] <mw> state your objections within the next 2 minutes 
[2017-10-02 21:13:14] <Manishearth> i really think this is something pub should do anyway
[2017-10-02 21:14:33] <mw> Manishearth: it kind of ties into how the new module/visibility system would handle that
[2017-10-02 21:15:01] <mw> I'll post something on the issue, we can continue discussion there
[2017-10-02 21:15:06] <Manishearth> hmmmm
[2017-10-02 21:15:16] ⇐ Diggsey quit (uid120933@moz-773k9v.hathersage.irccloud.com): Quit: Connection closed for inactivity
[2017-10-02 21:15:25] <Manishearth> in my mind this is an oversight, not a new feature, i.e. it should always have worked that way
[2017-10-02 21:15:55] <aturon> mw: the impl period isn't a total hard stop on RFC work -- 
[2017-10-02 21:16:01] <aturon> i'm in a meeting and can't read backscroll,
[2017-10-02 21:16:08] <aturon> but is this something we can do behind a gate for now?
[2017-10-02 21:16:31] <mw> aturon: we probably could, yes
[2017-10-02 21:17:13] <mw> aturon: I mentioned you on the GH issue, if you could leave a quick comment there some time, that would be great
[2017-10-02 21:17:27] <aturon> mw: will do!
[2017-10-02 21:17:43] <mw> aturon: <3
[2017-10-02 21:17:53] <mw> OK, next up: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/24336
[2017-10-02 21:18:05] <mw> Show library version in documentation generated by rustdoc
[2017-10-02 21:18:16] <misdreavus> this one's mine
[2017-10-02 21:18:17] <mw> any rustdoc people around?
[2017-10-02 21:18:31] <misdreavus> so
[2017-10-02 21:19:17] <misdreavus> the reason i brought this up is whether we can Get Away With using the cargo env variables to rip this information or whether we should wait for a proper consensus (i.e. RFC) and a real cargo-independent solution
[2017-10-02 21:20:08] <misdreavus> or more directly: would adding command-line flags to provide this require an rfc?
[2017-10-02 21:20:24] <misdreavus> rustdoc has the capability to have unstable flags already, so it could slot into that
[2017-10-02 21:21:05] <mw> my personal opinion is that this would not require an RFC, since it seems rather straight forward
[2017-10-02 21:21:05] <misdreavus> getting rustdoc to print this information saves the "why does every std doc show 1.0.0 in the corner" issue
[2017-10-02 21:21:40] → Diggsey joined (uid120933@moz-773k9v.hathersage.irccloud.com)
[2017-10-02 21:21:49] <mw> but this is something where you'd need buy-in from the other rustdoc owners
[2017-10-02 21:22:00] <misdreavus> understandable
[2017-10-02 21:22:11] <mw> steveklabnik: you around?
[2017-10-02 21:22:38] <mw> misdreavus: it seems like a good feature to have!
[2017-10-02 21:23:38] <mw> misdreavus: if you're motivated you could implement it as an unstable flag and ask for people's opinion in the PR
[2017-10-02 21:23:56] <misdreavus> can do!
[2017-10-02 21:24:05] — misdreavus runs off for dayjob rowk
[2017-10-02 21:24:06] <misdreavus> **work
[2017-10-02 21:24:29] <mw> ok, very good :)
[2017-10-02 21:24:34] <misdreavus> <3
[2017-10-02 21:24:51] <mw> those were all the nominated issues
[2017-10-02 21:25:03] <mw> there's one dev-tools PR: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/44138
[2017-10-02 21:25:59] <mw> it's waiting on nrc's approval but nobody thinks that he'll object :)
[2017-10-02 21:26:22] <mw> I'll post a quick note on the issue
[2017-10-02 21:28:12] <mw> There are 3 RFCs: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AT-dev-tools
[2017-10-02 21:28:33] <mw> but 2 of them are really mostly cargo topics
[2017-10-02 21:29:04] <mw> then there is https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2117
[2017-10-02 21:29:15] <mw> "Debuggable macro expansions"
[2017-10-02 21:29:18] <matklad> The one about XDG is not really Cargo specific
[2017-10-02 21:29:39] <mw> matklad: do you want to talk about it?
[2017-10-02 21:29:42] <matklad> rustup should also agree with Cargo on the dirs.
[2017-10-02 21:30:08] <matklad> mw: I don't know the details unfortunately. 
[2017-10-02 21:30:10] <mw> true
[2017-10-02 21:30:57] <mw> since we have low attendance today, I don't think there'd be much discussion
[2017-10-02 21:32:06] <mw> let's leave it for now
[2017-10-02 21:32:27] <mw> next up: "Debuggable macro expansions"  https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2117
[2017-10-02 21:32:58] <mw> tromey: did you ever take a look at this? 
[2017-10-02 21:33:07] <tromey> only just today
[2017-10-02 21:33:18] <tromey> it seems like a reasonable step to take to me
[2017-10-02 21:33:24] <mw> ok
[2017-10-02 21:33:46] <mw> the state here is still: someone should do an experimental implementation
[2017-10-02 21:33:59] <mw> so we can see if it fulfills its promise
[2017-10-02 21:34:26] <mw> tromey: if you have any strong feelings about this, I'd be great if you left a comment in the RFC thread
[2017-10-02 21:34:48] <mw> but nothing is set in stone yet
[2017-10-02 21:35:55] <mw> alright, that's it with our issue lists
[2017-10-02 21:36:05] <tromey> I'm a bit hesitant to weigh in on this but I iwll think about it
[2017-10-02 21:36:34] <mw> tromey: yes, there's no pressure
[2017-10-02 21:37:08] <mw> is there any dev-tools news anybody would like to share?
[2017-10-02 21:38:30] <mw> ok, I think we're done for today then :)
[2017-10-02 21:38:40] <misdreavus> <3 mw
[2017-10-02 21:38:48] <mw> have a great day/evening everyone!
[2017-10-02 21:38:53] <tromey> bye!
[2017-10-02 21:38:59] <matklad> bye!
```
